Nonrelational databases

In a nonrelational database, you create tables. A table is a place where you can store and query data.

Nonrelational databases are sometimes referred to as “NoSQL databases” because they use structures other than rows and columns to organize data. One type of structural approach for nonrelational databases is key-value pairs. With key-value pairs, data is organized into items (keys), and items have attributes (values). You can think of attributes as being different features of your data.

In a key-value database, you can add or remove attributes from items in the table at any time. Additionally, not every item in the table has to have the same attributes. 

Example of data in a nonrelational database:

Key	Value
1	
Name: John Doe

Address: 123 Any Street

Favorite drink: Medium latte

2	
Name: Mary Major

Address: 100 Main Street

Birthday: July 5, 1994

Amazon DynamoDB

Amazon DynamoDB(opens in a new tab) is a key-value database service. It delivers single-digit millisecond performance at any scale.

To learn about features of DynamoDB, select each flashcard by choosing them.

Front of card
Serverless


Click to flip
Back of card
DynamoDB is serverless, which means that you do not have to provision, patch, or manage servers. 



You also do not have to install, maintain, or operate software.


Click to flip
Front of card
Automatic scaling


Click to flip
Back of card
As the size of your database shrinks or grows, DynamoDB automatically scales to adjust for changes in capacity while maintaining consistent performance. 



This makes it a suitable choice for use cases that require high performance while scaling.


Click to flip
To start the video on comparing Amazon RDS and Amazon DynamoDB, choose the play button.

Play Video
To access a transcript of the video, choose the following transcript.


Video transcript
Knowledge check

For guidance on navigating this question using the keyboard, expand the following keyboard instructions.


Keyboard instructions
What are the scenarios in which you should use Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS)? (Select TWO.)

Running a serverless database

Using SQL to organize data

Storing data in a key-value database

Scaling up to 10 trillion requests per day

Storing data in an Amazon Aurora database

SUBMIT
