In object storage, each object consists of data, metadata, and a key.

The data might be an image, video, text document, or any other type of file. Metadata contains information about what the data is, how it is used, the object size, and so on. An object’s key is its unique identifier.

Recall that when you modify a file in block storage, only the pieces that are changed are updated. When a file in object storage is modified, the entire object is updated.

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)(opens in a new tab) is a service that provides object-level storage. Amazon S3 stores data as objects in buckets.

You can upload any type of file to Amazon S3, such as images, videos, text files, and so on. For example, you might use Amazon S3 to store backup files, media files for a website, or archived documents. Amazon S3 offers unlimited storage space. The maximum file size for an object in Amazon S3 is 5 TB.

When you upload a file to Amazon S3, you can set permissions to control visibility and access to it. You can also use the Amazon S3 versioning feature to track changes to your objects over time.

Amazon S3 storage classes

With Amazon S3, you pay only for what you use. You can choose from a range of storage classes(opens in a new tab) to select a fit for your business and cost needs. When selecting an Amazon S3 storage class, consider these two factors:

How often you plan to retrieve your data
How available you need your data to be
To learn more about Amazon S3 storage classes, expand each of the following eight categories.

S3 Standard

S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (S3 Standard-IA)

S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3 One Zone-IA)

S3 Intelligent-Tiering

S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval

S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval

S3 Glacier Deep Archive

S3 Outposts
Knowledge check

For guidance on navigating this question using the keyboard, expand the following keyboard instructions.

Keyboard instructions
You want to store data that is infrequently accessed but must be immediately available when needed. Which Amazon S3 storage class should you use?

S3 Intelligent-Tiering

S3 Glacier Deep Archive

S3 Standard-IA

S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval

SUBMIT

TAKE AGAIN
