To learn more about the role of subnets within a VPC, review the following example from the coffee shop.

First, customers give their orders to the cashier. The cashier then passes the orders to the barista. This process allows the line to keep running smoothly as more customers come in. 

Suppose that some customers try to skip the cashier line and give their orders directly to the barista. This disrupts the flow of traffic and results in customers accessing a part of the coffee shop that is restricted to them.

Some customers give their orders to the cashier, while other customers try to give their orders directly to the barista.
To fix this, the owners of the coffee shop divide the counter area by placing the cashier and the barista in separate workstations. The cashier’s workstation is public facing and designed to receive customers. The barista’s area is private. The barista can still receive orders from the cashier but not directly from customers.


A cashier, a barista, and three customers in line. The icon for the first customer in line has an arrow pointing to cashier showing that the customer gives their order to the cashier. Then the cashier icon has an arrow pointing to barista icon showing that the cashier forwards the customer's order to the barista. The last customer in line tries to give their order directly to the barista, but they're blocked from doing so.

This is similar to how you can use AWS networking services to isolate resources and determine exactly how network traffic flows.

In the coffee shop, you can think of the counter area as a VPC. The counter area divides into two separate areas for the cashier’s workstation and the barista’s workstation. In a VPC, subnets are separate areas that are used to group together resources.

Subnets

A subnet is a section of a VPC in which you can group resources based on security or operational needs. Subnets can be public or private. 

VPC with three Amazon EC2 instances in a public subnet and three databases in a private subnet.
Public subnets contain resources that need to be accessible by the public, such as an online store’s website.

Private subnets contain resources that should be accessible only through your private network, such as a database that contains customers’ personal information and order histories. 

In a VPC, subnets can communicate with each other. For example, you might have an application that involves Amazon EC2 instances in a public subnet communicating with databases that are located in a private subnet.

Network traffic in a VPC

When a customer requests data from an application hosted in the AWS Cloud, this request is sent as a packet. A packet is a unit of data sent over the internet or a network. 

It enters into a VPC through an internet gateway. Before a packet can enter into a subnet or exit from a subnet, it checks for permissions. These permissions indicate who sent the packet and how the packet is trying to communicate with the resources in a subnet.

The VPC component that checks packet permissions for subnets is a network access control list (ACL)(opens in a new tab).

Network ACLs

A network ACL is a virtual firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic at the subnet level.

For example, step outside of the coffee shop and imagine that you are in an airport. In the airport, travelers are trying to enter into a different country. You can think of the travelers as packets and the passport control officer as a network ACL. The passport control officer checks travelers’ credentials when they are both entering and exiting out of the country. If a traveler is on an approved list, they are able to get through. However, if they are not on the approved list or are explicitly on a list of banned travelers, they cannot come in.

Network access control list in front of a public subnet.
Each AWS account includes a default network ACL. When configuring your VPC, you can use your account’s default network ACL or create custom network ACLs. 

By default, your account’s default network ACL allows all inbound and outbound traffic, but you can modify it by adding your own rules. For custom network ACLs, all inbound and outbound traffic is denied until you add rules to specify which traffic to allow. Additionally, all network ACLs have an explicit deny rule. This rule ensures that if a packet doesn’t match any of the other rules on the list, the packet is denied. 

Stateless packet filtering

Network ACLs perform stateless packet filtering. They remember nothing and check packets that cross the subnet border each way: inbound and outbound. 

Recall the previous example of a traveler who wants to enter into a different country. This is similar to sending a request out from an Amazon EC2 instance and to the internet.

When a packet response for that request comes back to the subnet, the network ACL does not remember your previous request. The network ACL checks the packet response against its list of rules to determine whether to allow or deny.

Passport control officer checks list to verify traveler has permission to enter and exit.
After a packet has entered a subnet, it must have its permissions evaluated for resources within the subnet, such as Amazon EC2 instances. 

The VPC component that checks packet permissions for an Amazon EC2 instance is a security group(opens in a new tab).

Security groups

A security group is a virtual firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic for an Amazon EC2 instance.

Security group firewall protecting an Amazon EC2 instance.
By default, a security group denies all inbound traffic and allows all outbound traffic. You can add custom rules to configure which traffic should be allowed; any other traffic would then be denied

For this example, suppose that you are in an apartment building with a door attendant who greets guests in the lobby. You can think of the guests as packets and the door attendant as a security group. As guests arrive, the door attendant checks a list to ensure they can enter the building. However, the door attendant does not check the list again when guests are exiting the building

If you have multiple Amazon EC2 instances within the same VPC, you can associate them with the same security group or use different security groups for each instance. 

Stateful packet filtering

Security groups perform stateful packet filtering. They remember previous decisions made for incoming packets.

Consider the same example of sending a request out from an Amazon EC2 instance to the internet. 

When a packet response for that request returns to the instance, the security group remembers your previous request. The security group allows the response to proceed, regardless of inbound security group rules.

Door attendant remembers guest from previous entrance approval. So, they allow guest to exit without additional approval.
With both network ACLs and security groups, you can configure custom rules for the traffic in your VPC. As you continue to learn more about AWS security and networking, make sure to understand the differences between network ACLs and security groups.


A packet travels over the internet from a client, to the internet gateway and into the VPC. Then the pack goes through the network access control list and accesses the public subnet, where two EC2 instances are located.

VPC component recall

Recall the purpose of the following four VPC components. Compare your response by choosing each VPC component flashcard.

To practice recalling VPC components, select each of the following flashcards by choosing them.

Front of card
Private subnet


Click to flip
Back of card
Isolate databases containing customers' personal information.


Click to flip
Front of card
Virtual private gateway


Click to flip
Back of card
Create a VPN connection between the VPC and the internal corporate network.


Click to flip
Front of card
Public subnet


Click to flip
Back of card
Support the customer-facing website.


Click to flip
Front of card
AWS Direct Connect


Click to flip
Back of card
Establish a dedicated connection between the on-premises data center and the VPC.


Click to flip
Knowledge check

For guidance on navigating these questions using the keyboard, expand the following keyboard instructions.

Which statement best describes an AWS account’s default network access control list?

It is stateless and denies all inbound and outbound traffic.

It is stateful and allows all inbound and outbound traffic.

It is stateless and allows all inbound and outbound traffic.

It is stateful and denies all inbound and outbound traffic.

SUBMIT











(opens in a new tab)

TAKE AGAIN
